[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and dan walker our
headlines for you
today the prospect of tougher and
tighter lockdown regulations as
ministers warn of further restrictions
one police chief confirms rule breakers
are increasingly likely to be fined
boris johnson is criticized for going
cycling in east london at the weekend
downing street insists it wasn't
a breach of the restrictions good
morning a tougher stance on masks when
you're out shopping morrisons and
sainsbury's are stepping up enforcement
amid more reports of staff facing abuse
around over the poor quality of food
parcels sent to children in lockdown
who'd normally get free schools minister
says she's
urgently looking into those claims
good morning there's lots to look
forward to in the end of the fa cup not
only
surely get a home tie against premier
league wolves and
liverpool will play manchester united
keeping busy during lockdown we'll
explore some of the ways
people are filling their time in the
face of the call to stay at home
good morning it's a mixed picture out
there today things are turning colder
from the north with some sunshine in
store
but further south many of us can stay
quite cloudy with outbreaks of rain i'll
bring you a full forecast throughout
this morning's programme
[Music]
morning to you it's a tuesday the 12th
of january our top story for you there's
a warning that tighter lockdown rules
and tougher enforcement could be imposed
in england as hospital admissions for
covid continue to rise
ministers have warned that we are
currently at the worst point of the
pandemic
meanwhile one of england's top police
chiefs says people who break the rules
are increasingly
likely to be fined our political
correspondent jessica parker has more
with hospitals under huge strain people
are being urged to follow the rules
to try and bear down on infections and
admissions
this is 42 year old hanifa whose
condition worsened
after testing positive it is loud and
clear
because it is serious national lockdown
rules may be tough on many
but there are warnings that they could
yet become tougher
especially if people don't follow the
current restrictions
there's been speculation about more
restrictions and we don't rule out
taking further action if it's needed
but it's your actions now that can make
a difference
the supermarket morrisons says it will
bar customers who refuse to wear
face coverings unless medically exempt
sainsbury's is also set to challenge
people
without a mask and writing in the times
britain's most senior police officer
cressida dick said it was preposterous
that anyone could be unaware of our duty
to do all we can
to stop the spread of the virus we have
been clear she said
that those who breach 19 legislation
are increasingly likely to face fines
labor suggested tighter rules in england
should be considered
so we're in this extraordinary situation
if you like where
having got to at least as serious if not
a more serious position than in march
of last year we've got lesser
restrictions in place and we need those
in place as quickly as possible
meanwhile boris johnson a keen cyclist
was seen on his bike in east london on
sunday
around seven miles from downing street
advice is to stay local when exercising
but a number 10 source insists he was
within the rules
jessica parker bbc news
and at 7 30 this morning we'll be
putting some of those points to the
policing minister kit
malthouse two supermarket chains have
said that they will step up the
enforcement of wearing
face coverings in their stools morrison
said customers refusing to wear a mask
without a medical exemption
would be asked to leave meanwhile
sainsbury said that it was putting
trained security guards at the front of
its shops to challenge people
who didn't comply there are concerns
this morning
the quality and quantity of food being
provided to some children from
low-income families as part of the
government's free school meals pledge is
inadequate the department for education
has launched an investigation into the
claims after parents began to post
images of the food parcels online
andy moore reports
even though many children may not be at
school because of covid
the government is still committed to
providing free school meals in the form
of vouchers or food parcels
but some of those deliveries have been
falling short of expectations
this is claimed to be the supply of food
for one child for 10 days
issued in place of a 30 pounds voucher
the company believed to have supplied it
says an investigation is underway
it says the photo doesn't reflect the
specification of one of its hampers
and now this example and other hampers
provided by different companies
have come to the attention of marcus
rashford the manchester united player
and school meals campaigner
he tweeted an image of a parcel said to
be three days of food for one family
saying it was just not good enough he
added that children deserve better than
this
when marcus rashford raises an issue
ministers take note
the claims can't be verified but they
have already prompted the children's
minister vicki ford
to say she will be looking into the
issue urgently
the department for education said
parcels should be nutritious
and contain a varied range of food it
said there were clear guidelines
which it expected to be followed some
parents have been happy with the food
hampers they've received
but the government will be keen to
defuse this row before incurring the
wrath of marcus rashford
once again andy moore bbc news
the fbi has warned that armed protests
are being planned across the united
states by supporters of donald trump
ahead of president-elect joe biden's
inauguration
next week a huge security operation has
been drawn up to prevent any repeat
of last week's storming of the capitol
building in washington
here's more from our north american
correspondent peter bowes
washington 8 days before joe biden is
due to be sworn in as the next president
unprecedented security around the
capitol building where the national
guard
is on patrol from tomorrow parts of the
city will be under lockdown
and president trump has approved a state
of emergency
lasting until the end of next week
inside the capital more political high
drama the democrats don't want to wait
to see the back of mr trump
they want him out now resolution calling
on vice president michael
r pence it's a long shot but they're
hoping the vice president and a majority
of the cabinet
will agree to invoke the 25th amendment
declaring mr trump
unfit to continue in office he will be
removed
immediately if that doesn't happen the
democrats will move forward with
articles of impeachment accusing the
president of
incitement of insurrection that he
gravely endangered the security
of the united states around the country
feelings are running high
you know if one of us was inciting a
riot we would get thrown in jail so i
think that somebody like
you know just because you're the
president doesn't mean you are exempt
from the law and i think that like you
should be held accountable
hurry up and impeach him um but we're
only hoping
that he will never run for anything ever
again
except from the police yes
so lock him up while washington debates
the president's immediate future
mr trump is planning to head to texas to
see part of the border wall that he
promised to build
for his part joe biden has been focusing
on the coronavirus
receiving his second dose of the vaccine
he was pressed by reporters on whether
he was concerned about the opener
inauguration ceremony
next week i'm not afraid of taking the
earth outside
and we've been getting briefed but i am
i think it's critically important that
there be a real
serious focus on holding
those folks who engage in sedition
and threaten people's lives
to face public property cause great
damage that they be held accountable
the head of the national guard has said
up to 15 000
troops could be deployed in washington
for mr biden's inauguration
while the fbi has warned that armed
protests could take place
in the capital cities of every state in
the country
over the next week peter bose bbc news
los angeles
the united arab emirates has been added
to the uk's travel quarantine list
following a spike in coronavirus cases
from today anyone arriving from the uae
will need to self-isolate for 10 days
it comes after scotland removed dubai
from its safe travel list
uk officials say cases have risen 52 in
the uae in the last
seven days retailers suffered their
worst annual sales performance on record
in 2020. this is according to new
figures the british retail consortium
says that while spending on food and
drink at christmas
was the highest ever seen there was a
big slump in demand for fashion and
homeware products
many retailers have been badly affected
by the closure of non-essential stores
because of the pandemic several gorillas
at a zoo in california have tested
positive for coronavirus in what is
thought to be the first
transmission of the virus to apes staff
at the san diego zoo
arranged for eight of the animals to be
tested after some developed
cough coughs it's thought the source of
the infection may be a member of staff
when it comes to unusual marriage
proposals you might have heard of people
getting a pet to present
an engagement ring what about a romantic
robot
ben hogan not that one and his partner
sherry dawes live near milton keynes
where these high-tech machines are used
to deliver groceries
and ben was very clever he arranged for
one of them to bring the ring so that he
could pop the question there he goes
um sherry apparently is a big fan of
robots so the proposal went down very
well
oh that's really sweet
i like that there you go
was there was no hesitation was there
were there were there any groceries in
there was it just the ring
i didn't see it was it amongst the
pineapples and the like
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news